in a world where our measure of human
barbarity is all too frequently being
re-evaluated what happened to to
overseas backpackers at a remote South
Australian beach sets a new unthinkable
low for horror Salt Creek is a rugged
and spectacular piece of coastline 200
kilometers southeast of Adelaide but
it's very isolation made it the perfect
setting for monster Roman Hinds to try
to satisfy his wicked fantasies he lured
the unsuspecting 23 year olds one from
Brazil one from Germany to the beach and
then kidnapped and attacked them but how
the young women fought to save
themselves and each other shows courage
can conquer evil tonight for the first
time Beatrice and Lena tell their
incredible story of escape from Salt
Creek and we have to warn you this story
has some confronting scenes and violence
[Music]
it's Tuesday the 9th of February 2016
and police are responding to a chilling
cry for help
as this home video shows it started out
as a regular road trip a friendly
stranger giving to young backpackers
arrived they think they're safe but just
moments later these two women are
fighting for their lives what happened
at this abandoned and remote campsite at
the hands of this man Roman Hinds is
terrifying he is evil in the worst kind
he's another either Mallette
and for all its beauty Salt Creek two
hours southeast of Adelaide was his
hunting ground when you get out there
middle of nail a needle in a haystack
and the chances of two girls that
survived him caught the chances they're
happening a really really remote but the
survival of Beatrice from Brazil and
Lena from Germany didn't come without an
incredible fight worthy of a Hollywood
movie
[Music]
ramen Heinz didn't count on you too did
he he didn't count on how strong you
were he expect that we both would be
weak and he can just do what he wants
with us he didn't know that he was in
fact facing two Amazonian women who were
much stronger than him yeah I think we
were just is murder right matter yeah
exactly just at that moment it just we
knew that we had to fight we had to do
whatever wasn't needed to survive
somehow
[Music]
walk along these roads with me
I think it's kind of why everything's
you just think of the beach of the salon
like 24/7
Australia has long been the go-to
destination for free-spirited
backpackers keen on adventure I think I
was turned yourself across a safe place
we have plenty of Sun surf and in the
minds of backpackers not so many serial
killers no yeah are there serial killers
see I still wouldn't get into a car like
hitchhike by myself but if I do it with
her to someone else or stuff like that I
would definitely do that yeah Lena to
thought Australia's safe even after
watching our own backpacker horror film
Wolf Creek which she considered pure
fiction
I watched it with a friend together and
I remember that I was telling him after
the movie was finished that I said to
him this is horrible but it's not real
this will never ever happen to anyone
like not like this and then yeah
one month later yeah something like that
happened and it happened to you yeah so
it's quite unbelievable
both 23 at the time Beatrice and Lena
had always dreamed of visiting Australia
Lena was on a gap year and Beatrice was
completing her nursing studies both were
keen to see as much as they could
my first adventure in my life and I
really wanted to do it so I wasn't
really that's that worried and I knew
there would be a lot of backpackers
anyway one of those backpackers would be
Beatrice who had also never before
traveled on her own just one week after
meeting new Aussie boyfriend James she
was on her way to Adelaide everyone says
it's a good experience just travel by
yourself and I don't like gonna be in
Australia I gonna meet people in the way
it's like lovely country just gonna try
and James did you think it was safe yeah
yeah things happen I mean everyone knows
Ivan Milat and those sorts of people but
it's almost like a myth really we never
expected to happen in Adelaide Beatrice
meets Lena for the first time and learns
they have the same plans a desire to see
the great ocean road they just need a
ride and so as so many young travelers
do Beatrice posts an ad on gumtree
looking for someone to drive them from
Adelaide to Melbourne I got two main
response first a guy that it was the one
that I wanted to go but the night before
he had a problem with his car so I had
to cancel with him and that's when I
called to my second option which was
Roman did you get any sort of sense of
warning any sense of danger at all in
those initial dealings with him no I
just thought he was a bit impatient
that's the feeling that I had because he
was saying like send me message like
just be nice with me you just send me a
message just answer if you want to go or
not but I didn't have so many options
Tuesday 9th of February last year and
Lena and Beatrice arrive at the
designated meeting spot 59 year old
Roman Hines is already there waiting the
first impression that I had it was weird
because he looked like older than what I
was yeah I thought like okay Beatrice is
here too and that made me feel safer
then it would normally do yeah I'm not
sure if I would have gone with him all
alone I yeah yeah what the girls did not
know was they were now with a man who
was dangerously volatile a man who
planned to hurt them this looks like you
and happier times yes it was actually it
was a fantastic time you know this is
before he started down a bit weed artist
Sylvia Clarke fell in love with a man
she found charming but very soon
encountered another side to him
so here you are happy six months later
I'm black and blue and heartbroken
Sylvia says these photos are evidence of
a vicious attack by Roman just one month
before he picks up Beatrice and Lena her
account is harrowing I must I went into
a deep sleep and then I woke up this
hand was already tied up my left hand
was already tied up and I just said what
the hell are you doing then he just he
just swore at me and told me to shut up
and then he started biting me he kept
constantly biting me and then he was
grabbing me like I was a dirty rag and
just yanking at me
my legs trying to get my legs apart and
in the end I just laid there and I just
thought to myself he's if I'll keep
doing this it could come out worse then
when he finished it just rolled over
left me tied up just rolled over turned
his back what I love is they flying
there you didn't say anything to you
didn't say a single word to me too
ashamed to go to police
Sylvia ended the relationship and
luckily escaped a planned camping trip
to Salt Creek
what do you think might have happened to
you if you'd gone with him on that
camping trip to Salt Creek well the way
he would like that flick instantly from
weighing one person to another I
probably wouldn't have come back
blissfully unaware of his violence
against Silvia Beatriz and Lena and now
two hours into their drive with Heinz
without discussing it with the girls he
pulls off at Salt Creek to set up camp
miles from anywhere
and anyone he just went there and
started setting up the tents and there
didn't like any special place it was
just a beige in the middle of nowhere
know why so I just I don't know why why
here you know at what point do you think
he planned that now I think he planned
before before I see my ads you know he
was already chasing someone to do
something bad coming up so well in the
middle of nowhere
Hans becomes a monster she grabbed me
and then I realized it wasn't a joke
his terrifying plan is revealed in
chilling detail
oh my god he wants to kill us that's
next on 60 minutes coming back now what
are the thoughts going through your mind
it's always a strange feeling coming
back here it's really clear and still I
can just remember it so well no wonder
Salt Creek will always be seared in
Lena's memory what happened in this
remote place in February last year to
her and fellow backpacker Beatrice was
horrific but as Beatrice happily and
innocently captured it started out as a
simple road trip with a delayed man
Roman Hinds giving them a lift
what was that drive like he was quiet
most of the time I felt that he was
worried about us having a nice trip you
know he was concerned like oh let's take
some pictures I know you guys are
Therese
[Music]
the girls were unaware of the Menace
Heinz kept hidden on their way to the
great ocean road he decided to pull into
Salt Creek a remote fishing destination
he knew well he took them to Tetrick
crossing to set up camp by now Lena was
worried
I remember that I asked Beatriz like do
you think he's all right
and she was like he's a little bit weird
but I think it's gonna be okay yeah yeah
masquerading as a mild and helpful
fellow traveller Pyne soon had the camp
ready so after the camp was set up what
did you do then oh I was pretty tired on
that day and I actually just wanted to
sleep so I went in the car that's where
I finally slept and Beatrice in Rome and
they were like setting up the stove and
they were cooking something together and
yeah sitting on the table just like this
is made up now yeah
the service space yeah how did Roman
Heinz convince you to move away from the
campsite he convinced me that there were
kangaroos in the back and he said that
he saw some footprints and he said like
how would you like to go to see ensign
yes why not you know
Heinz's twisted plan was now in action
trustingly Beatrice followed him into
the sand dunes unaware he was carrying a
knife hammer and ropes there were no
kangaroos and Beatrice wanted to return
still unaware of the danger once I
turned around to go towards the campsite
that's when she grabbed me and then at
the beginning like the first I think
speeds of seconds I just thought it was
a joke I just didn't get and then so
like no it's no fun what are you doing
look and then I realized it wasn't a
joke you know it wasn't how had he
grabbed you he was on my back and he put
his arm around my neck and put me down
what did he do then
then he hit a rubber knife that he had
on his back and he put on the sand and
then if he got some pieces of ropes and
try to tied my arms and my legs my
ankles but once I realized that he was
trying to do I grab the rope and throw
them away that's a great moment of
defiance did he react in any way he said
to me either you make it easy or I gonna
break your arm so I said okay I'm not
gonna piss him off
I'm gonna just do it wasn't the right
moment you piss him off and I know this
must be painful but if he can tell me
what happens after that what happens
next
then like she wasn't control with me you
know that moment just I couldn't do
anything else oh he was turning me and
he ripped my bikinis and started like
trying to kiss me and like me you know
and I understand he did get angry I mean
he he he physically hurt you too what
what prompted that and what did he do I
was trying to talk with him and convince
him that wasn't a good thing he didn't
place him so he started punching me like
shut up you know I don't want to hear
what you have to say did that stop you
know it was like and it's weird but I
didn't feel pain at that moment with the
pants you know because I had so much
adrenaline inside of me that I just was
focusing like what can I do to survive
were you sure at that point that you
would survive you know it pays for like
several moments in my mind that I was
gonna die and I even imagined my mom
coming there to see my body like truth
you know that's pretty much that I had
but I didn't think about giving up at
any moment
you know I just thought it would be
really unlikely for me to survive I was
in the middle of nowhere he was there
but I was side what could I do
like nothing nothing he must have been
terrified yeah I felt like I was in a
horror movie you know the end you don't
need to or to then you know what's gonna
happen
Beatrice's next move most likely saved
her life
incredibly instead of fighting Roman she
tricked him persuading him they could
continue with whatever he wanted back in
the comfort of the camp I had to
convince him that I was on his side you
know so I said like you don't need to do
this if you want to do something just
ask me we can go to the tent we can
relax there you don't need to do this
and when we were going towards the camp
I felt good but for some reason when we
were getting close to the camp he felt
that he changed his mind and he went
towards the other direction and at this
moment I thought that's my final chance
because if you go far away I don't know
what's gonna happen and that's when I
screamed for Elena I had just one chance
milena and that's it and then he started
punching me and free from me on the sand
[Music]
I heard the scream and I went around the
car and it was friendly its direction no
it came from the left direction
definitely that lena heard her name
above the wind and the waves was a
miracle in itself now she had to find
exactly where the single scream came
from I saw them she was lying in the
sand dunes naked and Roman was standing
over
like oh my god this can't be true then
after the short moment I yeah I got
really angry suddenly I was like what
the hell does he thinks he is like he
can't do this and so I went in their
direction and I shouted at him something
like like leave her alone and get away
from her let her go and he turned around
to me and he said something really
strange that I didn't get immediately in
that moment he said something like I
just wanted to try her and then he was
coming after me and I was I was running
back to the car because I knew I don't
want to be close to this guy anymore
like I knew he was like planning on
doing something but I had no idea what
exactly and I was trying to warn her you
know like he has an ex I didn't know
what was it you know so I just run away
he has an ax a hammer I just I didn't
know what was it and like she was there
so brave trying to help me and it just
no run away Dean
having to leave Beatrice bound Lena
races back to the car she's desperate to
get to her phone to call for help I
think I was even telling him like I just
want to prep my back and get out of here
it was like yeah get your fucking back
so I opened the door to get the back
which was he and I tried to grab it but
didn't work out because he came from
behind and that's when I got the hot
smash with the hammer
oh my god he's gonna burn it burn me and
sand or something so I thought that's it
pretty much I didn't know what he had
like hit me with because I couldn't see
it immediately but I thought that's the
end because the smash was so hot
bleeding profusely lena is now fighting
for her life as she tries to get the
hammer off this six-foot-six enraged man
he manages to hit her three more times
before she escapes him
he has a hammer and a knife what do you
think he was planning on doing
he's intentions with those tools was to
harm us for sure
yeah like after the hammer attack it was
clear I was just thinking oh my god he's
just totally insane like he wants to
kill us
yeah coming up incredible courage she
saved me again at this moment whose idea
was it to go separate ways and an
unbelievable chase yeah I mean look at
you you're little and it's got this full
drive and he's chasing you Paolina
outsmarted the madman so I pretty much
jumped on the bonnet he was really angry
that's next on 60 minutes
twenty-four-year-old lena considers
herself lucky to be alive
this could well have been her final
resting place if the cruel and perverse
roman Heinz had his way she stopped his
sexual attack on her friend Beatrice but
now she was his target how Lena survives
is extraordinary if you didn't fight
back where would you be today ah
probably not alive I guess
[Music]
her fight for survival went on for hours
as the injured laner
runs away from hinds he jumps into his
four-wheel drive to chase her down
layna is not only trying to get away she
also wants to find and help Beatrice
[Music]
I wasn't sure where Beatrice what was at
that time so I was yelling for her like
where are you where are you
I don't know where exactly was I think
he went to his car to chase us and at
this moment she untied my arms so she
saved me again at this moment and that's
when I have the opportunity to survive
whose idea was it to go separate ways
after news yeah just a natural decision
that it was sort of both held together
you know summer yeah that he had to
split up that you'd have a better chance
yet escaping but which direction to take
was another fateful decision
Beatrice went left up into the sand
dunes and Lena right naked and
frightened
Beatrice hid in the bushes but Lena was
in full sight
[Music]
then he turned around and he started
chasing me and I was running in all
different directions pretty much but on
this flat area here
you must been terrified again yes yeah
yeah I mean look at you you're little
and he's got this full wheel drive and
he's chasing you it's huge the car and I
didn't really know what to do the only
chance was just running away as fast as
I could
weaving between scrubby salt bushes lena
ran for nearly a kilometer with heinz
constantly on her tail intent on running
her down it's hard to imagine her terror
what freaked me out was a those small
footprints you see so there's not much
of a girl as obviously yeah
a small person but the footprints were
like four feet apart and it's clear as a
bell that's someone running for their
life
the hunt ended here Lena had nowhere
else to run we finally reached me with
the car and just bumped into me pretty
much in my back with the bumper BER yeah
so you're running and he's got you yeah
so how many times did he do that to you
he did that like I think four times and
always bumping into me with the booba
and then I flew away in the sand but
always stood out again
did you think this is the spot where I
will die yeah I thought I'm going to die
I was really sure about it
like I already imagined myself dying
here and that's why I didn't want to
give up in the end because I was so like
so so determined that I didn't want to
die here I really don't want to die
today and on this spot not here not now
physically at her weakest Lena now makes
a truly remarkable decision I realized
that I got weaker and weaker I knew I
couldn't go on for this for very long so
I remember when when he turned around
the next time was facing me with the car
I thought like okay I have to do
something because I can't keep on going
and so I pretty much ran towards the car
and just jumped on the bonnet and I was
holding myself on the antenna of the of
the car and then pushing myself up on
the bonnet and then straight going onto
the roof because I thought like okay I'm
safe on the roof you can't get on the
roof
I'm laughing because I can't help it but
it's because you're so extraordinary
like how did you think to do that how
could you do that physically it's
incredible I felt like a bit like in a
movie at first but like
[Music]
I was Roman Heinz's reaction to you
doing that he was really angry like
really angry and was shouting at me get
off the fucking move get off the fucking
move
he said it like ten times but I was
really angry as well
we tried to climb on the roof and was
trying to hit me with the hammer again
and I remember I tried to like kick it
in his face
to be in this situation where this man
is clearly trying to get you you're
bleeding profusely it was like you're
like you're black rain like kept on
dripping onto the roof that's when I
knew like it's really serious because it
just kept on dripping didn't stop like
blood rain you say yeah
[Music]
unable to shout her down the Furious
Heinz tries everything to dislodge Lena
from his roof driving first along the
beach and then through the sand dunes
he was like driving like a madman
through everything
[Music]
it was but like it was quite rough like
like being on a road here that's how I
felt life
[Music]
Petrified Hines would be back Beatrice
stays hidden behind bushes until
unexpectedly her luck changes she sees
another car makes sure it's not Romans
before desperately flagging down the
driver and his friends can you describe
the image they would have seen coming at
them
the sangeun's yes like a girl naked
running waving for them and I think when
they saw me they thought that was weird
but once I got in the car and start
screaming they saw that was serious
[Music]
the young freaked out fishermen called
Adam Stewart the owner of the local and
only Roadhouse in the area this some
girl on the beach has been raped was the
first thing he said that's basically
some Joy's raped and bashing some girls
on the beach and just panic I just an
extreme level of help
while Adam called police and prepared to
head to the beach Beatrice convinced her
rescuers to search for Lena and they
want me to like take me back to the
entrance to save me but then I said no
my friends still there and they agreed
with me to try to look for her you know
and I think that's the moment when
indirectly I saved her back you know
because Roman knew that there was
someone else chasing him
it's an incredible story of survival
never did the small but feisty laner
give up even though she was still at the
mercy of this monster mentally Lena was
stronger setting the rules that would
lead to her freedom he was like get off
the roof like I'm not driving any
further with you on the roof and he said
this is ridiculous I remember that he
said that and I was like why is it
ridiculous like why should I come off
the roof you you tried to kill me
like why should I even trust you so I
told him I only come off the roof if you
throw away your weapons he had two
hammers and there was a knife
remarkably he listened to her and
perhaps sees by sympathy Hines handed
Lena her cap to help stem the blood
gushing from her scalp but the kindness
is short-lived with Layne and now in the
front seat he races up the beach past
another group of fishermen
Roman had just driven through the
campsite and one of the boys in
particular had a really really good view
of notice that in the passenger seat was
a young girl chopped in blood and
thought as if you see was an arm waving
and then they rolled off up the beach
waving as in waving fell I was more so
flapping out of their car not a lot of
energy and despite their own fear the
young men got back in their car and
followed finally cornering Hinds in the
sand dunes and it's a chilling phone
call the kids on the phone just start
going mental that's like we can see him
at and we can see the car except we can
see him and sound and that voice coming
through that find those kids were were
scared rightly so and and I'm like
where's the girl can you see the girl no
no we can only see him
[Music]
I finally opened the door he was like
please Lena get back into the car and I
said no I'm going to the fishermen now
he looked really confused like not like
as if he didn't know what to do really
with this kind of situation and then I
pretty much just ran away and I turned
around a couple of times but he didn't
come after me
[Music]
it's being described as being so bad
that those men didn't know if you were a
man or a woman yeah I had no idea that's
what they told me later and that's why
they were so scared and didn't want to
come towards me
Roman Heinz didn't stick around for
laners rescue and fled the scene in his
four-wheel-drive with sunlight fading
fast and hundreds of kilometers of sand
dunes to cover it became a race against
time from that moment on it was it was
just a hunt we were after it you know we
we near the girls were safe we just
gotta find this guy coming up the hunter
becomes the hunted it was ending there
there was any one way or another we're
just gonna wait you're just gonna round
him yeah and one more chilling twist
four years ago Roman Heinz stopped here
at the Roadhouse witnesses saw him with
a young blonde woman they assumed as a
backpacker that's next on 60 minutes
hello I'm Tara Braun thanks for watching
to keep up with the latest from 60
minutes Australia make sure you
subscribe to our Channel
you can also download the 9 now app for
full episodes and other exclusive 60
minutes content